# NAME

dispatch - Transparently call code with different interpreters


# SYNOPSIS

*dispatch* **PROGRAM-TO-EXECUTE**


# DESCRIPTION

If you have a test suite that is made up of code in many different languages
and you want to run all those test files within one harness, like Perl's
\`prove(1)', you will have to find a way to run those files with different
interpreters with prove's \`--exec' option. *dispatch* is a way to do that.

It is important for this to work, that *dispatch* is able to tell which
interpreter is required for a file. You could just rely on scripts shebang
lines. But what if on someone elses system the interpreter is in a different
place? What if it's not the right interpreter at all? What if you need to pass
a set of options to the interpreter? What about compiled code, which doesn't
have a shebang like at all? Another way might be to model something around the
output of \`file(1)' and hope that will turn out correctly on a wide variety of
systems. There are worse ideas than these. But I think the most robust way to
deal with this is to have the file name announce which file type it is.

Hence, to use this you need to enforce a file name policy:

1. File names may not contain a new-line character.

2. File names end in "*-*`\<language-indentifier\>`*.t*". The
   \`language-identifier' may not contain a dash.


The constraint in \`1)' enables you to feed file-names line by line into

    prove -

The constraint in \`2)' serves two purposes: 1. you can scan a deep test tree
using find(1) looking for files that match "\*.t". 2. *dispatch* can tell,
what language a file is implemented in (see *RECOGNISED LANGUAGES* below).


# RECOGNISED LANGUAGES

Here is a list of recognised languages tags, with their associated interpreter
environment variables and their default values:

* **c**: *Compiled Code* (**No interpreter**)
* **cl**: *Common Lisp* (\$COMMON\_LISP\_INTERPRETER, default: "clisp")
* **clj**: *Clojure* (\$CLOJURE\_INTERPRETER, default: "clojure")
* **hs**: *Haskell* (\$HASKELL\_INTERPRETER, default: "runhaskell")
* **lua**: *Lua* (\$LUA\_INTERPRETER), default: "lua")
* **pl**: *Perl* (\$PERL\_INTERPRETER, default: "perl")
* **py**: *Python* (\$PYTHON\_INTERPRETER, default: "python")
* **rb**: *Ruby* (\$RUBY\_INTERPRETER, default: "ruby")
* **scala**: *Scala* (\$SCALA\_INTERPRETER, default: "scala")
* **scm**: *Scheme* (\$SCHEME\_INTERPRETER, default: "guile")
* **sh**: *Shell* (\$SHELL\_INTERPRETER, default: "/bin/sh")


# DISPATCHING SEQUENCE

This section describes the operation of the *dispatch* script in detail (the
following assumes the filename to be **"foobar-scm.t"**).

First, sanity checks are performed: Does the file exist? Is it readable? Does
the file name match the naming policy?

Then the file name is disected into its base name and the language-identifier.
In the example, that would be "foobar" as the base name and "scm" as the
language identifier, which would set the file type to "scheme".

In the next step, language specific setup is done and language specific
information is assigned to language agnostic ones.

Next, a language specific file is *sourced* (example: **"scheme.env"**). This
file is looked up in "\$DISPATCH\_ROOT", unlike all other files, that live in the
same directory as the test file.

Then, a test-script specific file is *sourced* (example: **"foobar.env"**).

After that, a test-script specific file is *run* (not sourced!). This file
may be used to setup an environment for the test code to run in. (example:
**"foobar.setup"**)

Only now is the actual test code is run (see *HOW CODE IS RUN* below).

And finally, another test-script specific file is *run*. This may be used to
clean up a previously set-up environment. (example: **"foobar.teardown"**).


# HOW CODE IS RUN

The interpreter used to run a piece of code is in the
\`*\$DISPATCH\_INTERPRETER*' variable. Options to it may be specified in the
\`*\$DISPATCH\_INTERPRETER\_OPTIONS*' variable.

The former defaults to the values in the **"\<language\>\_INTERPRETER"**
variables. The latter defaults to the value of the
**"\<language\>\_INTERPRETER\_OPTIONS"** variables.

If \`*\$DISPATCH\_INTERPRETER*' is empty (as it should be with compiled code),
neither of these variables has any effect.


# VARIABLES

*\$\*\_INTERPRETER*
:   Language specific interpreter; default value for *\$DISPATCH\_INTERPRETER*.

*\$\*\_INTERPRETER\_OPTIONS*
:   Language specific interpreter options; default value for
    *\$DISPATCH\_INTERPRETER\_OPTIONS*.

*\$DISPATCH\_VERBOSE*
:   If defined and not equal "0", makes *dispatch* tell the user its setup.

*\$DISPATCH\_TYPE*
:   The name of the detected language.

*\$DISPATCH\_ROOT*
:   The name of the root directory of the test-code tree in the source
    directory of a project. (Defaults to "\$PWD".)

*\$DISPATCH\_BIN\_ROOT*
:   Like \`\$DISPATCH\_ROOT', but in the build tree of a project. (Defaults to
    "\$DISPATCH\_ROOT".)


\`\$DISPATCH\_ROOT' and \`\$DISPATCH\_BIN\_ROOT' are used to support
out-of-tree builds like \`cmake' and other build tools support them. When an
input file name is given as an absolute file name and if it starts with
\`\$DISPATCH\_BIN\_ROOT', then that part is replaced by \`\$DISPATCH\_ROOT'.


# EXAMPLES

Here are two examples for which files are read for which file types.

0001-boot-scm.t:

    /tmp/src/project/tests/scheme.env (sourced)
    /tmp/src/project/tests/scm/0001-boot.env (sourced)
    /tmp/src/project/tests/scm/0001-boot.setup (run)
    /tmp/src/project/tests/scm/0001-boot.teardown (run)


0001-getopt-c.t:

    /tmp/src/project/tests/compiled.env (sourced)
    /tmp/src/project/tests/c/0001-getopt.env (sourced)
    /tmp/src/project/tests/c/0001-getopt.setup (run)
    /tmp/src/project/tests/c/0001-getopt.teardown (run)


# BUILD SYSTEM INTEGRATION

The included \`*runtests*' script is an example of how to make use of the
\`*dispatch*' script in an existing build system. It has support for
cmake-style out of tree builds. To create a \`test' target in a cmake controlled
project the following can be used:

    add_custom_target(
      test
      /bin/sh ${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/test-detach/runtests
                  -source-dir ${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}
                  -binary-dir ${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}
      WORKING_DIRECTORY ${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/tests)


# SEE ALSO

*runtests(1)*, *prove(1)*, *cmake(1)*


# COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2012 Frank Terbeck <ft@bewatermyfriend.org>, All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above
     copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
     disclaimer.
  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
     copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
     disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials
     provided with the distribution.

 THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
 INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
 FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR
 OR CONTRIBUTORS OF THE PROJECT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
 SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
 PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
 BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER
 IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
 ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
 POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
