# NAME

run-tests - Find tests and run them in Perl's harness via \`*dispatch-test*'


# SYNOPSIS

*run-tests*\ [**OPTION(s)**...]

Within \`*cmake*' that might look like this:

    add_custom_target(
      test
      run-tests -source-dir ${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}
                -binary-dir ${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}
      WORKING_DIRECTORY ${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/tests)


# DESCRIPTION

While \`*dispatch-test*' runs tests in a controlled and tunable environment,
\`*run-tests*' uses \`*find*(1)' to gather a list of test scripts and feeds
them into Perl's \`*prove*(1)' harness with an appropriate set of options. It
also makes sure, that \`*prove*' uses \`*dispatch-test*' to actually call the
test scripts, thus making sure that test scripts written in multiple languages
run within the same harness.


# OPTIONS

**-binary-dir DIR**

:   The projects binary directory root. Defauls the the value of the
    \`*-source-dir*' option.

**-source-dir DIR**

:   The projects source directory root. Defaults to \`*\$PWD*' if unspecified.

**-dispatch FILE**

:   Path name of \`*dispatch-test*' script. Defaults to \`//dispatch-test//'.

**-dispatch-root DIR**

:   Specifies the root directory of the test-tree. Default:
    \`*\<source-dir\>/test*'

**-dispatch-bin-root DIR**

:   Specifies the root directory of the binary test-tree. Default:
    \`*\<binary-dir\>/test*'

**-export VARIABLE VALUE**

:   Adds the variable \`*VARIABLE*' with the value \`*VALUE*' to the
    environment of all children of the \`*untests*'.

**-strip-roots**

:   Strip \`*DISPATCH\_ROOT*' and *DISPATCH\_BIN\_ROOT* from a test's
    filename before feeding it into \`*dispatch-test*'. This option may be
    used for cosmetic purposes, for example in case absolute path-names are
    used and the working directory is known.

**-dispatch-verbose**

:   Turns on verbosity in the \`*dispatch-test*' script.

**-verbose**

:   Turns on verbosity in Perl's \`*prove*' TAP harness.

**-debug**

:   Turns on debugging output within the \`*run-tests*' script.


# SEE ALSO

*dispatch-test(1)*, *prove(1)*, *cmake(1)*


# COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Frank Terbeck <ft@bewatermyfriend.org>, All rights
reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above
     copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
     disclaimer.
  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
     copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
     disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials
     provided with the distribution.

 THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
 INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
 FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR
 OR CONTRIBUTORS OF THE PROJECT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
 SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
 PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
 BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER
 IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
 ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
 POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
